

16.1: T ypes of F ossil Fuels and F ormation Fossil fuels are nonrenewable sources of energy formed from the organic matter of plants and microorganisms that lived millions of years ago.This energy was originally captured via photosynthesis by living organisms such as plants, algae, and photosynthetic bacteria.Sometimes this is known as fossil solar energy since the energy of the sun in the past has been converted into the chemical energy within a fossil fuel.As discussed in Food Chains and Food Webs and Matter, the organic molecules store chemical energy, which is released when the higher energy (less stable) bonds in these molecules are broken to form lower energy (more stable) bonds.Fossil fuels are nonrenewable because their formation took millions of years.Furthermore, higher productivity in the ancient environment allowed for more fossil fuel accumulation, meaning that the fossil fuel reserves available now could not necessarily be regenerated millions of years in the future.
Fossil fuels are composed primarily of hydrocarbons (molecules of just carbon and hydrogen), but they contain lesser amounts nitrogen, sulfur, oxygen, and other elements as well. The precise chemical structures vary depending on the type of fossil fuel (coal, oil, or natural gas).The molecules in coal tend to be larger than those in oil and natural gas.Coal is thus solid at room temperature, oil is liquid, and natural gas is in a gaseous phase.Specifically, coal is a black or dark brown solid fossil fuel found as coal seams in rock layers formed from ancient swamp vegetation.Both oil and natural gas are fossil fuels found underground that formed from marine microorganisms.Oil (petroleum) is a liquid fossil fuel and consists of a variety of hydrocarbons while natural gas is a gaseous fossil fuel that consists of mostly methane and other small hydrocarbons.
Coal Coal is the product of fossilized swamps, although some older coal deposits that predate terrestrial plants are presumed to come from algal buildups. Coal was formed when plant material is buried, heated, and compressed in oxygen-poor conditions over a long period of time (figure ).Millions of years ago, continents were in different locations with different climates, and swamp-like vegetation covered many regions.When the vegetation died, it could not fully decompose due to oxygen-poor conditions.Instead, it formed peat (a brown substance high in organic content).The peat was buried and formed coal after millions of years of high pressure and temperature.The pressure was from the weight of sediments as well as from continental collisions.Figure : Coal was formed when large plants in swamps died 300 million years ago (before the dinos aurs).Over millions of years, this vegetation was buried under water and dirt (100 million years ago).
Eventually, heat and pressure turned the dead plants into coal, which is found under layers of rock and dirt. Image from U.S.Energy Information Administration/National Energy Education Development Project (public domain).There are several different types of coal ranging in quality (figure ).The more heat and pressure that coal undergoes during formation, the greater is its fuel value and the more desirable is the coal.
The general sequence of a swamp turning into the various stages of coal are as follows: Swamp → Peat → Lignite → Subbituminous coal → Bituminous coal → Anthracitic coal → Graphite16.1.a 16.1.a 16.1.b2025/3/27 23:11 16.1: Types of Fossil Fuels and Formation - Biology LibreTexts https://bio.libretexts.org/Bookshelves/Ecology/Environmental_Science_(Ha_and_Schleiger)/05%3A_Energy/5.01%3A_Fossil_Fuels/5.1.01%3A_T… 1/4 Figure : Coal rankings depend on energy content, measured as gross calorific value (how much energy is released from combustion) and carbon content that can be burned (percentage of fixed carbon). Anthracitic coal (orange) is the highest quality coal, with high energy and carbon content.Next in quality is bituminous coal (gray), subbituminous coal (green), and lignite (yellow).All three have less carbon content than anthracitic coal.Bituminous coal retains high energy content, but subbituminous coal and lignite have lower energy content.Image by USGS (public domain).
Specifically, peat compacts to form solid rock through a process called lithification, producing lignite (brown coal, a low-quality form of coal). With increasing heat and pressure, lignite turns to subbituminous coal and bituminous coal.Lignite, subbituminous coal, and bituminous coal are considered sedimentary rocks because they from from compacted sediments.At very high heat and pressure, bituminous coal is transformed to anthracite, a high-grade coal that is the most desirable coal since it provides the highest energy output (figure ).Anthracite is considered a metamorphic rock because it has been compacted and transformed to the extent that it is denser than the other forms of coal and no longer contains sheet-like layers of sediments.With even more heat and pressure driving out all the components that evaporate easily and leaving pure carbon, anthracite can turn to graphite.Figure : Anthracitic coal, the highest grade of coal.
Oil and Gas Oil and natural gas formed from ancient marine microorganism (plankton). When plankton died, they were buried in sediments.As with coal, oxygen-poor conditions limited decomposition.As sediments continued to accumulate, the dead organisms were further buried.High temperature and pressure over millions of years ultimately produced oil and natural gas from these dead organisms.16.1.b 16.1.c 16.1.c2025/3/27 23:11 16.1: Types of Fossil Fuels and Formation - Biology LibreTexts https://bio.libretexts.org/Bookshelves/Ecology/Environmental_Science_(Ha_and_Schleiger)/05%3A_Energy/5.01%3A_Fossil_Fuels/5.1.01%3A_T… 2/4 Figure : Petroleum (oil) and natural gas were formed from marine microorganisms.(The image text mentions tiny marine plants, but they were primar ily algae and photosynthetic bacter ia rather than plants.) These were covered by layers of silt and sand 300-400 million years ago.Over millions of years, the remains were buried deeper and deeper.
They are pictured 100 million years ago. The enormous heat and pressure turned the remains into oil and natural gas.Now , oil and natural gas deposits are found underground and can be extracted via drilling through the layers of sand, silt, and rock.Image from U.S.Energy Information Administration/Nation al Energy Education Development Project (public domain).As the rock forms from the sediments that originally trapped the plankton, the oil and gas leak out of the source rock due to the increased pressure and temperature, and migrate to a different rock unit higher in the rock column.If the rock is porous and permeable rock, then that rock can act as a reservoir for the oil and gas.Petroleum is usually found one to two miles (1.6 – 3.2 km) below the Earth’s surface, whether that is on land or ocean.A trap is a combination of a subsurface geologic structure and an impervious layer that helps block the movement of oil and gas and concentrates it for later human extraction.
Traps pool the fluid fossil fuels into a configuration in which extraction is more likely to be profitable, and such fossil fuels are called conventional oil and natural gas (figure ). Extraction of oil or gas outside of a trap (unconventional oil and natural gas) is less efficient and more expensive; sometimes it is not economically viable at all (does not produce a profit).Examples of unconventional fossil fuels include oil shale, tight oil and gas, tar sands (oil sands), and coalbed methane.Figure : Convention al oil and natural gas deposits are trapped beneath impervious rock (gray).Conventional natural gas may be associated with oil or nonassociated.Coalbed methane and tight gas found in shale and sandstone are exam ples of unconventional fossil fuels.Image from USGS/EIA (public domain) Oil Shale Oil shale is a fine-grained sedimentary rock that sometimes contains kerogen, a solid material from which petroleum products can ultimately be manufactured.
In order extract the fossil fuels, the material has to be mined and heated, which is expensive and typically has a negative impact on the environment. Tight Oi l and Natur al Gas Tight oil and natural gas are also trapped in shale rock, fine-grained sedimentary rocks with relatively high porosity and low permeability.They differ from oil shale in that they can be extracted through a process called hydraulic fracturing (fracking).Similarly, fracking can be used to extract natural gas from tight sands, which are gas-bearing, fine-grained sandstones or carbonates (rocks made of minerals containing carbonate, CO ) with a low permeability.Tar Sands Tar sands, or oil sands, are sandstones that contain petroleum products that are highly viscous (like tar), and thus, can not be drilled and pumped out of the ground, unlike conventional oil (figure ).
The fossil fuel in question is bitumen, which can be pumped as a fluid only at very low rates of recovery and only when heated or mixed with solvents. Thus, injections of steam and solvent or mining of the tar sands for later processing can be used to extract the tar from the sands.(See related information about strip mining with respect to coal in Mining, Processing, and Generating Electricity.) Alberta, Canada is known to have the largest reserves of tar sands in the world.16.1.d 16.1.e 16.1.e 32- 16.1.f2025/3/27 23:11 16.1: Types of Fossil Fuels and Formation - Biology LibreTexts https://bio.libretexts.org/Bookshelves/Ecology/Environmental_Science_(Ha_and_Schleiger)/05%3A_Energy/5.01%3A_Fossil_Fuels/5.1.01%3A_T… 3/4 Figure : Tar sandstone from the Miocene Monterrey Formation of California.Coalbed Methane Some natural gas is also found associated with coal deposits (coalbed methane), consisting of methane produced during coal formation.
Attributions Modified by Melissa Ha from the following sources: Challenges and Impacts of Energy Use and Non-Renewable Energy Sources from Environmental Biology by Matthew R. Fisher (licensed under CC- BY) Fossil Fuels from An Introduction to Geology by Chris Johnson et al.(licensed under CC-BY-NC-SA) Shale Gas 101.Office of Fossil Energy.U.S.Department of Energy.Accessed 01-12-2021.(public domain) The Process of Unconventional Natural Gas Production.2021.United States Environmental Protection Agency.Accessed 01-12-2021.(public domain) This page titled 16.1: Types of Fossil Fuels and Formation is shared under a CC BY-NC-SA 4.0 license and was authored, remixed, and/or curated by Melissa Ha and Rachel Schleiger (ASCCC Open Educational Resources Initiative ) .16.1.f2025/3/27 23:11 16.1: Types of Fossil Fuels and Formation - Biology LibreTexts https://bio.libretexts.org/Bookshelves/Ecology/Environmental_Science_(Ha_and_Schleiger)/05%3A_Energy/5.01%3A_Fossil_Fuels/5.1.01%3A_T… 4/4
welcome back !
japan is urging its citizens in china To step up safety precautions Amid a deepening diplomatic raw between asia's two largest economies Cbs news foreign correspondent anna corn is following all of this from hong kong And joins us now to discuss ana Great to see you What sparked what would appears to be a diplomatic spat Well , errol , as you say it's without doubt the most serious diplomatic clash between china And japan in years began earlier this month When japan's newly elected female prime minister Suni taki ei was asked in parliament What would constitute the deployment of military force in japan Her response if china attempted to blockade or sees taiwan now geographically Taiwan is about sixty eight miles from japanese territory As we know , beijing claims taiwan as its own It's refused to rule out using force to take control of the democratically governed island But her comments errol provoked a furious response from the chinese , uh Diplomats in japan called on social media for the prime minister to be headed That post was deleted in beijing , uh It told that citizens not to travel to japan Uh , and chinese tour groups were cancelled More than ten chinese airlines have offered refunds on flights And then on sunday Chinese coast guard ship sailed to a group of islands controlled by japan But claim by china further ratcheting up tensions And then aside from tourism There are concerns that china could further hurt japan's economy by weaponizing rare earths and critical minerals Japan relied heavily on them for the production of electronics and cars Even japanese films have been affected Two films due for release have been suspended And as you say that there has been a response to the fallout within japan It's urging its citizens Uh , to take precautions to avoid crowds Watch out for suspicious , suspicious people Uh , you might remember errol that a ten year old japanese boy was stabbed to death in china last year That there are concerns about nationalism being whipped up And it does not appear to be an off ramp Japan sent a senior diplomat to beijing for talks today But that has gone and no result error .
wow From tours to flights to films It really does appear to be deepening Uh , anna with all the latest Thank you so much
2024 年第 6 期信息与电脑 Information & Computer 软件开发与应用基于 LangChain 的 RAG 问答系统设计与实现 —以 C 语言课程问答系统为例 窦凤岐 胡 珊 李佳隆 张莹莹 （辽宁科技大学 计算机与软件工程学院，辽宁 鞍山 114051 ） 摘 要：生成式人工智能（ Artificial Intelligence ，AI）问答系统虽然多数情况下能为用户提供比较满意 的答案，但是这些问题的答案通常是基于已有的知识库训练而生成的。当涉及新的知识或者某个特定领域的问题时， 生成式AI问答系统经常会生成一些错误的答案。为了克服生成式 AI问答系统这种弊端，文章采用了检索增强生成 （Retrieval Augmented Generation ，RAG）技术，基于 LangChain 框架和ChatGLM 大语言模型构建了 C语言课程 问答系统，具有较高的推广应用价值。 关键词： RAG；LangChain ；大语言模型；问答系统 中图分类 号：TP18 文献标识码： A 文章编号：1003-9767（2024）06-101-003 Design and Implementation of a RAG Question-and-Answer System Based on LangChain —— a Case Study of a C Language Course Q&A System DOU Fengqi, HU Shan, LI Jialong, ZHANG Yingying (School of Computer and Software Engineering, University of Science and Technology Liaoning, Anshan Liaoning 114051, China) Abstract: This study introduces a Retrieval Augmented Generation(RAG) approach for Artificial Intelligence(AI) Q&A systems, addressing limitations in handling new or specialized information.
Leveraging the LangChain framework and ChatGLM model, a specialized Q&A system for C language education was developed. This method integrates large language models with specific domain knowledge, enhancing accuracy and relevance in responses.The findings emphasize the feasibility and cost- effectiveness of creating tailored educational Q&A solutions.
Keywords: RAG;LangChain; large language model;question-and-answer system 0 引言 C语言程序设计课程是工科院校的基础课程之一， 要求学生不仅掌握编程理论，还需要具备实际编程能力。 初学者在学习过程中可能遇到诸多问题，若未得到及时 解答，会影响学习热情。由于师资力量限制，教师难以 解答所有的学生问题。研究表明， C语言学习中学生问题存在相似性，高校可通过构建包含常见问题及解答的 知识库，开发智能问答系统。 随着大语言模型技术的发展，基于此技术的问答应 用日益流行，但难以提供特定领域的专业回答。受大语 言模型的时效性和专业性限制，模型通常使用旧数据训 练，无法反映新知识，专业知识覆盖不全，这就导 致了 收稿日期： 2024-01-17 基金项目： 辽宁科技大学大学生创新创业训练计划项目基金资助（项目编号： S202310146044 ）。 作者简介： 窦凤岐 (2002—)，男，安徽六安人，本科在读。研究方向：计算机视觉，大型语言模型。 — 101 — 2024 年第 6 期信息与电脑 Information & Computer 软件开发与应用AI幻觉的出现。 AI幻觉指的是 AI模型在处理数据或执 行任务时产生的不符合现实的信息。解决此问题，有微 调和 RAG两种方法。微调通过特定领域数据库深度训 练调整模型，但需要大量数据和资源。 RAG则通过检索 外部知识生成响应，无须重训练，可通过更新知识库快 速适应新知识。 本研究的目标是基于 RAG技术构建一个能够自动 回答学生在学习 C语言过程中遇到的问题的问答系统。 1 基于 RAG 的问答系统基本结构 RAG方法结合检索外部知识和大语言模型，提高回 答的合理性。其核心为“检索 +生成”：首先，通过向 量数据库高效检索目标知识；其次，利用大语言模型结 合检索到的知识生成答案。 RAG提升了答案准确性，能 够实现快速知识更新和领域专业性维持。基于 RAG的 问答系统包括构建知识库、问题检索和答案生成 3个部 分，具体如图 1所示。 1.1 构建知识库 构建知识库是将本地数据转为向量，建立索引并存 储于数据库的离线过程，主要分为四步。第一，数据提 取，即从原始数据源提取知识内容。第二，文本分割， 拆分文本数据为词块。第三，向量化，指的是使用预训 练语言嵌入模型将文本转为向量。第四，向量数据入库， 指的是将向量数据存入数据库。这些步骤构建了丰富知 识内容的数据库。 数据文档 构建知识库 问题 答案 大语言模型 提示词模板数据向量化网络检索返回知识问题检索 答案生成向量数据库 数据向量化网络 图1 基于RAG的问答系统结构图 1.2 问题检索 在问题检索阶段，系统主要关注用户的提问，并利 用高效的检索方法，寻找与该问题最相关的知识。问题 检索主要为以下两个步骤。第一，问题向量化。将用户的提问转化为数值向量。系统使用和文本数据相同的预 训练的语言模型对问题进行编码，使问题向量化。通过 这种方式，系统捕获问题的语义信息，从而进行相似性 比较。第二，向量相似性检索。利用向量相似性检索技 术在知识库中查找与问题向量最相似的知识向量。这步 通常涉及计算向量间的余弦相似度或其他相似度度量方 法。通过这种方式，可以快速地找到与问题最相关的 知识。 1.3 答案生成 答案生成阶段，系统首先将检索到的知识嵌入提示 词模板中，确保在生成答案时能充分利用相关知识。随 后，大语言模型根据提示词模板生成与问题相关的答案。 大语言模型综合分析提示词中的信息，结合其内部知识 和语言处理能力，产生逻辑连贯、准确且有意义的答案。 通过这种方式，系统不仅提高了答案的质量，还确保了 生成的答案符合用户的期望。 2 基于 langChain 的RAG 问答系统工作流程 LangChain 是一个专为 AI开发人员设计的强大框架， 旨在简化大语言模型的应用开发过程。通过 LangChain 提供的组件和工具，开发人员能够轻松地将大语言模型 与外部数据源结合使用。该框架支持多种用例，如文档 分析、摘要、聊天机器人和自定义搜索等，简化了大语 言模型应用开发过程。 利用 LangChain 框架提供的组件和工具，开发者能 快速而便捷地构建 RAG问答系统，其基本工作流程如 图2所示。 非结构文件 加载器本地文档 文档分割 向量相似度 检索Chroma向量 数据库 提示词模板 LangChain 框架M3E向量化 网络 用户提问 生成答案M3E向量化 网络 ChatGLM 模型 图2 基于LangChain 的RAG问答系统工作流程 2.1 数据加载 在数据加载方面，本系统收集了 C语言编程中常 见的问题及答案，形成了问答对。所有问答对都是问题 和答案结合在一起形成的文本段落，并存储在 Word文 档中。 LangChain 提供了文档加载器来处理各种格式的 文档。通过将 UnstructuredFileLoader 的mode设置为 — 102 — 2024 年第 6 期信息与电脑 Information & Computer 软件开发与应用elements，每一个问答对被分割成独立的文本块，从而 保证了问答对的完整性。 2.2 文本向量化模型加载 文本向量化是通过预训练的 M3E文本嵌入模型来实 现的。 M3E模型是一款功能强大的开源 Embedding 模型， 经过大量句对数据集训练而成，支持中英双语的文本相 似度计算和异质文本检索。在 LangChain 框架中，可以 通过接口加载预训练模型文件，并利用此嵌入模型进行 文本向量化处理。 2.3 向量数据入库 为了实现向量数据的存储和语义向量的查询，本 系统采用 Chroma向量数据来保存文本的向量数据。 在LangChain 中为 Chroma向量数据库提供了很好的封 装，开发者可以利用接口快速实现对向量数据的存储和 检索。 2.4 加载 ChatGLM 模型 ChatGLM3 是一个先进的推理框架，其高效动态推 理和显存优化技术使其在多个中英文公开数据集的测试 中表现卓越。在 LangChain 框架中要加载 ChatGLM3- 6B大语言模型，可以利用 LLM 封装器来构造一个 ChatGLM 模型类。在 LangChain 中构造用户自己的 LLM类，需要利用 LangChain 框架的输入输出模块来实 现一个自定义的 LLM类，同时在自定义 LLM类中需要 完成两件事：一是在初始化方法中加载用户自定义 LLM 模型的预训练模型文件，其中通过 model_path 参数来指 定LLM的预训练文件路径；二是实现 _call方法，让它 接受一个 Prompt字符串，并返回一个 response字符串。 2.5 基于向量数据库的知识检索 将用户提出的问题文本转换为向量后，可以利用向 量数据库的语义相似度检索算法检索出若干个（由参 数k决定）与问题文本向量最相似的向量，并返回此向 量对应的文本。本系统使用 Chroma作为检索引擎，在 LangChain 中， Chroma 默认使用 cosine distance 作为向量 相似度的评估方法。在 LangChain 框架中，可以利用向 量数据库的 similarity_search 函数进行语义相似性检索。 2.6 提示词模板构造 利用 RAG解释知识问题本质上是利用大语言模型 对检索到的知识内容进行理解分析，并从检索到的知识 中找到正确的答案。 RAG利用的并不是 LLM中的知识，而是利用了 LLM对文字语义的理解和分析能力来实现 问题答案的获取。为了让 LLM提高获取答案的能力， 好的提示词模板是一个决定性的要素。作为大语言模型 的直接输入， Prompt是影响模型输出准确性的关键因素 之一。在 RAG场景中， Prompt的设计尤为重要。通常 Prompt包括任务描述、背景知识（通过检索获得）和任 务指令（由用户提问提供）。这些组成部分共同指导大 语言模型生成准确的回答。 2.7 答案生成 利用 LangChain 的LLM封装器构建了 ChatGLM 大 语言模型之后，就可以利用 ChatGLM 和提示词模板结 合生成问题的答案。 3 结语 本研究成功应用 LangChain 框架，开发了一种基于 RAG的问答系统。通过利用 LangChain 提供的丰富模块 和接口，本系统迅速构建向量知识库、实现数据检索， 并配合大语言模型生成精准答案。这大幅缩短了特定领 域问答系统的开发周期，极大地方便了用户。系统采用 开源轻量级的预训练模型，意味着用户只需要标准计算 资源和消费级图形处理器即可打造专属智能问答系统， 确保了本方法的广泛适用性和实用价值。 然而， RAG问答系统对知识库的依赖程度较高，知 识库的不完整可能导致不尽如人意的答案。为此，建议 引入使用者评分机制，对反馈效果较差的回答进行人工 审核和修正，并将修正后的内容更新至向量数据库。通 过这样的迭代优化，问答系统将越来越完善。 参考文献 [1] 赵月 ,何锦雯 ,朱申辰 ,等.大语言模型安全现状与 挑战 [J].计算机科学 ,2024,51(1):68-71.
[2] 李特丽 ,康轶文 .LangChain 入门指南 [M].北京 :电 子工业出版社 ,2024:12-64. [3] 王晓华 .从零开始大模型开发与微调 :基于 PyTorch 与ChatGLM[M].北京 :清华大学出版社 ,2023:304-355.[4] 徐泽建 .基于自动生成模板的知识库问答方法研 究[D].南京 :东南大学 ,2019: 3-11.[5] 陆秀芝 .虚拟问答社区的知识地图构建研究 [D].北京 : 中国石油大学 (北京 ),2019:15-26.— 103 —
